Copyright (YEAR) (COPYRIGHT HOLDER(S)/AUTHOR(S))(“Licensor”)

Hippocratic License Version Number: 2.1.  
 
The Licensor named above hereby grants permission by this license (“License”), free of charge, to the extent of Licensor’s rights under applicable copyright and patent law, to any person or entity (the “Licensee”) obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the “Software”), to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following terms and conditions:

* This License is automatically offered to every person and organization subject to its terms and conditions. Licensee accepts this License and agrees to its terms and conditions by taking any action with the Software that, absent this License, would infringe any intellectual property right held by Licensor. 

* Licensee must ensure that everyone who gets a copy of any part of this Software from Licensee, with or without changes, also receives the above copyright (and if included by the Licensor, patent, trademark and attribution) notice and this License or a subsequent version published on the Hippocratic License Website (https://firstdonoharm.dev/). Licensee has the option of following the terms and conditions either of the above-numbered version of this License or of any subsequent version published on the Hippocratic License website. Licensee must cause any modified versions of the Software to carry prominent notices stating that Licensee changed the Software. For clarity, although Licensee is free to create modifications of the Software and distribute only the modified portion created by Licensee with additional or different terms, the portion of the Software not modified must be distributed pursuant to this License or a subsequent version published on the Hippocratic License Website (https://firstdonoharm.dev/) as stated above.   

* Compliance with Human Rights Laws and Human Rights Principles: 

   1. Human Rights Principles. Licensee is advised to consult the articles of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the United Nations Global Compact that define recognized principles of international human rights (the “Human Rights Principles”). It is Licensor’s express intent that all use of the Software be consistent with Human Rights Principles. If Licensor receives notification or otherwise learns of an alleged violation of any Human Rights Principles relating to Licensee’s use of the Software, Licensor may in its reasonable discretion but without obligation: (i) (a) notify Licensee of such allegation and (b) allow Licensee 90 days from notification under (i)(a) to investigate and respond to Licensor regarding the allegation and (ii) (a) after the earlier of 90 days from notification under (i)(a), or Licensee’s response under (i)(b), notify Licensee of its obligations to cease use of the Software in violation of the Human Rights Principles and (b) allow Licensee an additional 90 days from notification under (ii)(a) to cease use of the Software in violation of Human Rights Principles.

    2. Human Rights Laws. The Software shall not be used by any person or entity for any systems, activities, or other uses that violate any applicable laws, regulations, or rules (collectively, “Laws”) that protect human, civil, labor, privacy, political, environmental, security, economic, due process, or similar rights, provided that such Laws are consistent with Human Rights Principles (the “Human Rights Laws”). Where the Human Rights Laws of more than one jurisdiction are applicable to the use of the Software, the Human Rights Laws that are most protective of the individuals or groups harmed shall apply.

    3. Indemnity. Licensee shall hold harmless and indemnify Licensor against all losses, damages, liabilities, deficiencies, claims, actions, judgments, settlements, interest, awards, penalties, fines, costs, or expenses of whatever kind, including Licensor’s reasonable attorneys’ fees, arising out of or relating to Licensee’s non-compliance with this License or use of the Software in violation of Human Rights Laws or Human Rights Principles. 

* Any failure of Licensee to act according to the terms and conditions of this License places Licensee’s use of the Software outside the scope of the License and infringes the intellectual property rights of the Licensor (subject to exceptions under applicable Laws, e.g., fair use). In the event of infringement, the terms and conditions of this License may be enforced by Licensor under the Laws of any jurisdiction to which Licensee is subject. Licensee also agrees that the Licensor may enforce the terms and conditions of this License against Licensee through specific performance (or similar remedy under applicable Laws) to the extent permitted by applicable Laws.

* Enforceability and Interpretation: If any term or provision of this License is determined to be invalid, illegal, or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, then such invalidity, illegality, or unenforceability shall not affect any other term or provision of this License or invalidate or render unenforceable such term or provision in any other jurisdiction; provided, however, that, subject to the immediately following sentence, if any term or provision of this License pertaining to Human Rights Laws or Human Rights Principles is deemed invalid, illegal, or unenforceable against Licensee by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder of this License shall be deemed null and void as between Licensor and Licensee and no license to the Software shall be granted hereunder. Upon a determination that any term or provision is invalid, illegal, or unenforceable, to the extent permitted by applicable Laws, the court may modify this License to affect the original intent of the parties as closely as possible. The Hippocratic license name and section headings are for convenience only and are not intended to affect the construction or interpretation of this License. Any rule of construction to the effect that ambiguities are to be resolved against the drafting party shall not apply in interpreting this License. The language in this License shall be interpreted as to its fair meaning and not strictly for or against any party.
 
 
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED “AS IS”, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
 
This Hippocratic License is an Ethical Source license (https://ethicalsource.dev) and is offered for use on an “AS IS” basis with no warranties express or implied, to the maximum extent permitted by applicable Laws. 
